Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be
working with opening files,
and it's going to be really easy,
because all we have to do
is ask the user which file they wanna open
using another dialogue
like the one we've seen already,
get the contents,
and then create a new file
and put those contents in it.
Let's get started by creating our open file.
So, we'll do open_file() here,
and then we're gonna ask for a file_path(),
so we say file_path() equal filedialog,
and now we're gonna say askopenfilename.
Then, we will do as we did before.
We will extract the file name
from the path that this gives you.
So, we will do filename() equal
os.path.basename() file_path.
Next up, we're gonna open the file
with open() file_path.
and "r" as file.
We will then
get the content,
which is file.read,
and this reads the entire file.
Now if you have extremely long files,
this could present a bit of a bottleneck,
but we're not gonna worry
about that in this course.
Then we will have an except,
as usual,
for AttributeError and FileNotFoundError,
so in case that something does fail,
or we close the
dialogue,
then we will say
"print Open operation cancelled"
and we will return so that we don't execute
this next piece of code,
which is create_file(),
but now we're gonna pass in the content
and the filename
into create_file().
Let's go back up here to create_file(),
and we will have a content of empty string,
and a title of Untitled.
Then, here we will replace Text equal Untitled
by
title
and
we're also going to insert
the text in a text area.
What we'll do is a text_area.insert,
and where do we wanna insert the text,
that is the first thing that
this method requires,
and we're gonna use the special place end,
which will insert the text at the end
or at the very last character
currently in the text area.
Because this text area is empty,
we just created it,
this is going to essentially
be the start as well.
And, then the content that we wanna insert.
All right, so this how you open
a file
using
our editor,
very straight forward
once again
ask for the file,
get the file name
so that you can then name the tab that,
read the file contents,
and then create the file,
making sure to pass in the contents of the file
and the title.
By default, when we create a file
such as what we do down here,
we want
the content and the title
to be these default values,
So empty content and Untitled,
that's why we're making sure
that these have defaults
so that when you do insert the content,
it is gonna be empty,
and when you do add the tab,
it is gonna be Untitled,
unless we specify otherwise.
Finally, the last thing that we want to add
is of course a way to call this function,
as well as new and save,
we wanna add in open.
So we will do file_menu.add_command(),
label is going to be Open...,
as is usual,
and the command is gonna be open_file(),
making sure to not call it.
Let's run the app.
And now we're gonna open
this file called test.txt
that we made earlier,
and there you have test.txt.
Now, notice that you have still an
untitled tab at the start.
This is a problem that we're
not gonna concern ourselves
too much with right now,
but you could check to see if the tab
that is currently selected when
you open a new one
is empty,
and if it is,
then you can possibly close it,
and instead create this new one.
But, as I said,
we're not gonna do that in this course,
just a separate problem
that you can fix if you'd like.
Thanks for joining me in this video.
I hope you've learned something,
and I'll see you in the next one.